<small> FEBRUARY 7, 2014 </small>
<hr>
# Methods of Art History

Artists began to reflect c. 15th Century

## What Are The Methods?

### Visual Analysis

For example, Raphael painting of Baptistry vs. Perugino's painting.

* less realistic, "stiff"
* Raphael is easy, smooth, natural 

* **Giovanni Morelli**
	* *The Work of the Italian Masters*
	* 1820-1891
	* analyzed the ears and hands of various artists
* Recognizing an Artists
	* face
	* hands
	* ears
	* drapery

### Questions we ask:
* why chose this subject?
* what is the significance of this painting?
* why is the subject posed like this?
* *Delacroix* — **Michelangelo in his Studio**
	* 1849-1850
	* rougher
	* warm, natural colors
	* signed by Delacroix
	* is the setting characteristic of him?
	* what is he holding?
	* who is the subject?
		* by Michelangelo sculptures — Michelangelo?
		* angled posture, off kilter — Democritus from Raphael's School of Athens
	* what are the statues in this?
		* torque in the body suggest classicism — probably renaissance
		* larger than life size sculpture — *Michelangelo*
		* conclusion: *Madonna* and *Moses*
	* > "His imagination, repressed by endless re-readings of the prophet's from the Sistine chapel only exacerbated the melancholy"
	* scarf around his neck may suggest identification with Michelangelo
* *Delacroix* Style
	* less clear setting, a space
	* warm colors
	* refined
	* scandalous at the time
		* rushed brush strokes
		* not neoclassical/elegant
		* romanticist 
	* how do I keep this unified if I am changing?
		* each time I return to this piece I am different, how might I keep my style similar?
		* he was the first artist to ask these questions
		
* Romantic vs. Neoclassical
	* light never changes
	* color can change
	* Ingres detested Delacroix
		* very personal animosity with Ingres
		* thought he was a heretic of art

## What is Art About Art
* painting of other artists in studio
* copies/reproductions of other paintings ("rebounds")
* 
